My commitment as a person is really I would say 24 hours a day.
During Joyce Echaquan's incident, I was in front of my screen when a friend contacted me and said:
Chantal, have you seen what's happening on Facebook?
There is an Indigenous woman from Manawan who is suffering, who is dying and she is being mocked and ridiculed.
I watched the video and it traumatized me.
It brought back a lot of racist experiences that I have lived in my life.
And that evening, I asked myself, what can I do to make a difference?
One of Joyce's cousins contacted me and said Joyce has seven very young children up to the age of 18.
Joyce was also a grandmother.
And then she asked me if I could do something to make a difference.
In our communities, when someone dies, the whole community will support by,
for example, paying funeral expenses, offering meals to the family, soothing the pain of the family.
So that evening I said to myself OK, this is unacceptable, what Joyce suffered doesn't fit into my values.
I'm going to start a GoFundMe fundraising campaign to make a difference, to help pay for the funeral expenses.
Humbly, I was aiming for 10,000$ for that's about what you have to pay when someone dies.
And then, it was important that I meet with the family to tell them my commitment and also to have their agreement, of course.
First, I started with the idea of going on a vigil at the Joliette hospital because I wanted to denounce the treatment
that she had received because no human being deserves such treatment.
Finally, a lot of people got on board.
And then, there was a vigil the day after she died.
I met the family.
Fortunately, in my current department, I offer peer support.
This has helped me a lot in the correctional services environment,
to have an approach in crisis situations like this as we still experience a lot of them.
And then, I met the family and they welcomed me and I gave them my word, my commitment that I was there for them.
I think a mom is priceless.
And then I told them, listen, I'm going to help you with funeral expenses.
I started a fundraising campaign and in the end we raised 350,000$.
And then, my commitment was to the children, to the family.
I first opened accounts for each of the children and each one of them had an amount deposited for later,
when they reached the age of majority and also to provide care, if there was immediate care necessary
or at least to be able to enjoy little pleasures for the time being.
I felt that this tragedy should not remain silent.